        BORLAND PASCAL 7.0 OS/2 PATCH: UPDATE AND BUG FIXES
        ---------------------------------------------------

The German c't magazine's patch for Borland Pascal 7.0 (which allows
it to compile 16-bit OS/2 binaries) is now well known. The patch is
available by anonymous FTP from ftp-os2.cdrom.com (bp7-os2.zip).

There has been an active forum on Compuserve, which has been working
on translating the OS/2 16-bit API to Pascal, for use with the patch,
and also on fixing bugs contained in the original package. You can
contact the Compuserve forum through various e-mail addresses
contained in the documentaion to the various ZIP files in this
package.

This package contains the latest result of the efforts of these
people. The package contains the following files:

BPOS2-V2.DOC   - this file!
API-UNIT.ZIP   - the full 16-bit OS/2 API in several Pascal units
API-HELP.ZIP   - on-line help (in BP7 TPH format) for the API calls
OS2.ASM        - updated OS2.ASM file
RTL-FIX1.ZIP   - the first bug-fix package
RTL-FIX2.ZIP   - the second bug-fix package

Installation
------------
All the ZIP files in this package are unmodified copies of the
Compuserve people's efforts. I have only packaged them into one
ZIP file for onward transmission. Each ZIP file contains its
original documentation. You need to read this documentation
for instructions on installation, etc.

The bug fixes are incremental - this means that you need to install
the first one before installing the second one. This will be in the
form of manual editing of certain files (e.g. DOS.PAS) and the
replacement of certain ASM files with the ones in the bug-fixes.

OS2.ASM
-------
The only addition from me is the OS2.ASM file. One of the bug fixes
uses a constant which is not defined in OS2.ASM. All I have done is
to define it, for my own use. This involved adding a single line to
the original OS2.ASM file, as seen below;

OPEN_ACCESS_WRITEONLY EQU    1

This is the only change in OS2.ASM. I include the file for completeness.
You can delete it if you want. It works well for me, but I cannot
guarantee anything. Please don't call me if something goes awry.



Disclaimer
----------
I am not the author of anything in this package. I am just trying to
do a service by transmitting the files, since not everybody has an
account on Compuserve. If you have any problems with anything in this
package, please do NOT write to me. There is nothing I can do about
anything in it. Problems should be directed to the folks on
Compuserve, who I believe, will be glad to hear of any.




